README.md, before:

# dh-2019
Digital History Course Fall 2019

## Rendered Slides

- [session 1 (25.9)](https://dh2019-session1.netlify.com)

Raw slides can be found in the /slides folder of this repository. However, knitting them can be a bit tricky
as several advanced examples requiring local servers are needed in order to display all slides correctly. Hence, the above rendered version allow you to browse the slides w/o creating them locally. 

**Note**: Code examples can be found in /demos. 


## schedule

bi-weekly: 25.9, 9.10. 23.10, 6.11, 20.11, 4.12, 18.12

### 23.10.: Turning Text into Data

This session continues to work on R basics and handling data using the R Language. Yet the focus will shift away from 
sourcing pre-processed data to own data generating processes. Since text is a very important source for historians, we 
will look into techniques that were designed to turn text into data. 


### 9.10.: Breaking down R Code | Exploring data /w R

This session teaches R basics in an 'eat-cake-first' approach. That is, we take a relatively complex R function from session 1 and break it down line-by-line, learning the basics along the way. Learn about object creation, basic data types, indexing, scoping and applying functions over lists all while going through to a useful piece of code as opposed to Mickey Mouse examples that were designed to start with the building blocks.

Part 2 of the session will add data to the mix. We look at how to read in data from files and APIs. But most importantly we will develop basic strategies for exploratory data analysis. 


### 25.9.: Inspiration, Motivation and Setup

What can Historians do /w the help of programming? Which questions can be tapped by novice hackers? 
Plus: Getting to know the environment you will work in: R, R Studio, data sources, ... 
Don't forget to tell us about what you are interested in, e.g., specific data sources / problems you may face in your thesis. 



## Resources 

- [Official Introduction to R](https://cran.r-project.org/doc/manuals/R-intro.pdf) ( chapter 2)
- [Stackoverflow questions tagged R](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/r)
- [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org)
- [CRAN Task Views (CTV)](https://cran.r-project.org/web/views/)
- http://scottbot.net/argument-clinic/

Commit message:

updated links to new sessions, deployed slides on netlify

README.md, after:

# dh-2019
Digital History Course Fall 2019

## Rendered Slides

- [session 1 (25.9)](https://dh2019-session1.netlify.com)
- [session 2 (9.10)](https://dh2019-session2.netlify.com)
- [Intro to Exploring Data with R](https://dh2019-data-in-r.netlify.com)

Raw slides can be found in the /slides folder of this repository. However, knitting them can be a bit tricky
as several advanced examples requiring local servers are needed in order to display all slides correctly. Hence, the above rendered version allow you to browse the slides w/o creating them locally. 

**Note**: Code examples can be found in /demos. 


## schedule

bi-weekly: 25.9, 9.10. 23.10, 6.11, 20.11, 4.12, 18.12

### 23.10.: Turning Text into Data

First, we intend to look at how to read in data from files and APIs. But most importantly we will develop basic strategies for exploratory data analysis. The start of this session will **build on your preparation** between sessions 2 and 3!

This session continues to work on R basics and handling data using the R Language. Yet the focus will shift away from 
sourcing pre-processed data to own data generating processes. Since text is a very important source for historians, we 
will look into techniques that were designed to turn text into data. 


### 9.10.: Breaking down R Code | Exploring data /w R

This session teaches R basics in an 'eat-cake-first' approach. That is, we take a relatively complex R function from session 1 and break it down line-by-line, learning the basics along the way. Learn about object creation, basic data types, indexing, scoping and applying functions over lists all while going through to a useful piece of code as opposed to Mickey Mouse examples that were designed to start with the building blocks.



### 25.9.: Inspiration, Motivation and Setup

What can Historians do /w the help of programming? Which questions can be tapped by novice hackers? 
Plus: Getting to know the environment you will work in: R, R Studio, data sources, ... 
Don't forget to tell us about what you are interested in, e.g., specific data sources / problems you may face in your thesis. 



## Resources 

- [Official Introduction to R](https://cran.r-project.org/doc/manuals/R-intro.pdf) ( chapter 2)
- [Stackoverflow questions tagged R](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/r)
- [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org)
- [CRAN Task Views (CTV)](https://cran.r-project.org/web/views/)
- http://scottbot.net/argument-clinic/
